# Autonomy's impact on newcomer proactive behaviour and socialization: A needs-supplies fit perspective

## Metadata

- Item Type: [[Article]]
- Authors: [[Kang Yang T. Yu]], [[Hunter M. Davis]]
- Date: [[03/2016]]
- Date Added: [[2022-02-15]]
- URL: [https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/joop.12116](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/joop.12116)
- DOI: [10.1111/joop.12116](https://doi.org/10.1111/joop.12116)
- Cite key: yu2016
- Topics: [[intrapreneurship-research]]
  , #zotero, #literature-notes, #reference
- PDF Attachments
  - [Yu and Davis - 2016 - Autonomy's impact on newcomer proactive behaviour .pdf](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/N5ZU6TBI)
- Fleeting note: [[yu2016]]

## Summary

Newcomer proactive behaviour is being studied through the lens of person-environment fit theory.

This study investigates newcomer proactive behaviour through the lens of personenvironment (PE) fit theory. Two competing theories of autonomy-based needs–supplies (NS) fit were hypothesized to impact both newcomer proactive behaviours and socialization outcomes. Results from two waves of data collected from organizational newcomers indicate support for a self-regulatory form of relationship, where individuals engaged in different types of proactive behaviours most often when organizational supplies for autonomy did not match their personal needs. Specific types of proactive behaviours including feedback seeking, positive framing, general socializing, networking, and information seeking also mediated the impact of NS misfit onto certain socialization outcomes. Much can still be learnt about PE fit and proactive behaviours through further integration of ideas from both fields of research.

## Key ideas

### Proactive behaviour is about own initiatives to change in own work environment and/or the self

> “Proactive behaviour is the anticipatory self-initiated effort to bring about change in one’s work environment and/or the self (Grant & Ashford, 2008).” (Yu and Davis, 2016, p. 172)

### Freedom and discretion to determine job performance as a key antecedent of proactive behaviours

> “freedom and discretion to determine how one’s job is performed, as a key antecedent of proactive behaviours (Hackman & Oldham, 1976; Morgeson & Humphrey, 2006).” (Yu and Davis, 2016, p. 173)

### Seven key types of change-oriented proactive behaviours that newcomers engage in

Following Ashford and Black's (1996) influential study seven key types of change-oriented proactive behaviours: feedback seeking, information seeking, job change negotiation, positive framing, general socialising, building relationships with the boss, and networking.

Most of these behaviours were motivated by the newcomer's desire for control. The transition from outsider to employee is often fraught with uncertainty where individuals are faced with numerous task, social, and cultural demands (Miller & Jablin, 1991).

### Two different theories on the motivator of proactive behaviour

One theoretical perspective, affective-consistency-based view, follows the beliefs of Ashford and Black that the change-oriented behaviours are motivated by the individuals desire for control. Manifesting into a need for autonomy over what, when, and how one's job should be performed. It is this need for autonomy that motivates proactive behaviour. Behaviours that are designed to gain control over the novel work environment and promote successful coping and adaptation.

According to to the affective-consistency-based view beliefs higher levels of proactive behaviours would be present is there is Needs-Supplies fit between what levels of autonomy is provided by the employer and the needs of the employee.

An alternative view, self-regulatory view, is based on autonomy being part of job design, something that is provided by the organisation. Such situational autonomy signals to newcomer that they have the ability and opportunity to act proactively by initiate actions that support in managing their jobs and developing their skills. It leads to a negative affect characterised by feelings of unhappiness and dissatisfaction. Such feelings signals that the current situation is undesirable. As a coping mechanism, newcomers are motivated to engage in proactive behaviours to correct the need-supplies misfit. “Thus, newcomers may try to negotiate with their superiors for more freedom and discretion over job tasks when they feel that they lack autonomy (Hornung, Rousseau, & Glaser, 2008).” (Yu and Davis, 2016, p. 175). “Needs–supplies misfit also exists when there is an oversupply of autonomy that exceeds individual needs. Such a situation may be associated with a perceived lack of guidance on the job, which causes newcomers to proactively seek feedback and information regarding job tasks (Ashford, 1986).” (Yu and Davis, 2016, p. 176)

The self-regulatory view argues that newcomer behaviours are highest when there is a misfit between the organisational supply of autonomy and the needs of the individual. For example by giving too much or too less of autonomy to an individual.

### Proactive behaviour highest in case of an oversupply of autonomy

When there is too much autonomy for an employee, meaning more autonomy supplied then needed by the employee, the levels of proactive behaviour was found to be the highest. In case of undersupply, proactive behaviour was also higher.

### Autonomy fit does not maximise proactive behaviour

No support has been found that an autonomy fit, a match between supplied levels of autonomy and need of autonomy, will lead to maximised proactive behaviour.

### Positive framing is a consistent predictor and mediator across all socialisation outcomes

Positive framing can also be employed for both situations of NS misfit, where newcomers effectively bias and calibrate their perceptions of the self and the environment to deal with the negative affect accompanying the experience of misfit (Folkman & Moskowitz, 2004).” (Yu and Davis, 2016, p. 176).

> “The finding that positive framing was a consistent predictor and mediator across all socialization outcomes highlights the importance of currently overlooked cognitive approaches to proactive behaviours. Indeed researchers need to question whether proactive behaviours lie strictly within the boundaries of action-related behaviours. Such an approach may limit a deeper understanding of the dynamics and multifaceted nature of proactive behaviours as more recent theoretical work has emphasized crucial cognitive processes such as anticipation and planning that may operate prior to and during the engagement of proactive behaviours (Grant & Ashford, 2008; Parker & Collins, 2010).” (Yu and Davis, 2016, p. 189)
