# 1. Introduction

## 1.1 Background & context

In today's world, organisations need to stay ahead of their competition. To do so, they need to maintain or gain a competitive advantage over their competition. Already in 1986 Tushman and Nadler stressed that “organisations can gain competitive advantage only by managing effectively for today while simultaneously creating innovation for tomorrow”. Innovativeness is a key differentiator for organisations to thrive in this competitive world. A pressing problem for managers is to ensure sustained innovation [@tushman1986]. Years later managers still tend to be myopic, untrained, or constrained by a lack of experience [@braganza2009]. It is up to managers to ensure organisations innovate and cope with a changing environment.

A way for organisations to achieve sustained innovation is to promote intrapreneurship. Intrapreneurship is a bottom-up process of recognising and exploiting opportunities by being innovative, proactive and taking risks [@neessen2019; @gawke2019; @deJong2015; @elert2020]. It argues that intrapreneurial employees self-start initiatives. As it are these employees who are aware of external trends and events.

Intrapreneurial employees contribute to the competitive advantage of an organisation. Intrapreneurs are becoming important for innovation and economic growth [@elert2020; @gawke2019]. To be intrapreneurs, employees should display different behaviours. According to @bowen2016 employees should not be passive recipients of changing jobs and products. They need to adapt to roles as innovators and differentiators. Adopting a more intrapreneurial way of working is required for employees. It allows them to address or even start changing requirements. Thereby, they can impact the strategic direction of a firm [@peters1982].

## 1.2 Problem statement

Not all employees in an organisation will behave as intrapreneurs. @neessen2019 stated, in their systematic literature review, that employee autonomy influences the intrapreneur. Similarly, @deJong2015 found that job autonomy relates to innovative and proactive behaviour, which are both sub-dimensions of intrapreneurial behaviour. The underlying premise in the research of de Jong is that job autonomy is provided by the organisation. However, this is only part of the story. Although an environment provides a certain level of characteristics, one may question whether supplying autonomy will induce an employee to behave in a certain manner.

Autonomy, for example, can be given by an organisation, but some employees will thrive with autonomy and others will be unhappy. It is generally assumed that a fit should exist between the characteristics desired by an employee and the characteristics of an organisation [@vanVianen2018; @lambert2003].

An increase in autonomy has been shown to be beneficial for subjective well-being and work efficiency. Nevertheless, it has a tipping point. Both @zhou2020 and Stiglbauer and Kovacs (2018) discovered a "too-much-of-a-good-thing" effect occurred when autonomy exceeded the threshold of an individual, resulting in a sharp decrease in subjective well-being. According to the Job Demands-Resources model, autonomy can be perceived as a resource for an individual or a demand. Many studies have examined the various perspectives of job autonomy [@yu2016; @sorlie2022; @simmering2003; @jong2021]. However, no prior research has investigated the topic of autonomy (mis)fit and its influences on intrapreneurial behaviour. This research attempts to fill this gap.

Although people have an innate need to fit into their environment, a perfect fit seldom exists [@vanVianen2018]. Consequently, most individuals and organisations will experience misfit. Misfits are not necessarily bad. Experiencing misfit will lead individuals to adapt to their situation [@vanVianen2018]. Understanding the effect of adaptation, in the contexts of autonomy misfit, on intrapreneurial behaviour can help organisations to influence intrapreneurship in their organisation.

Intrapreneurial behaviour is often measured on an individual level. However, obtaining intrapreneurial outcomes often requires a team effort. Team members have to work and learn collaboratively to achieve desired outcomes [@edmondsonLei2014]. In times of uncertainty and collaboration, psychological safety has shown to enhance the performance of the team [@edmondsonLei2014; @frazier2017; @newman2017]. Psychological safety is a shared belief held by team members that the team is safe for interpersonal risk raking [@edmondson1999]. Teams with high levels of psychological safety take more risks, share more information, seek more feedback, and perform better. Psychological safety has a positive influence on innovation, process improvements, knowledge creation, and successful technology implementations [@edmondson1999; @edmondsonLei2014; @frazier2017; @newman2017].

Both autonomy fit and misfit have been shown to influence dimensions of intrapreneurial behaviour. Yu and Davis (2016), for example, showed that autonomy misfit leads to higher levels of proactivity. In the case of autonomy fit, psychological safety has been shows to influence creativity, risk taking, and motivation to engage in learning [@choo2007]. Given these findings, psychological safety might influence the effects of autonomy (mis)fit in relation to intrapreneurial behaviour.

In summary, autonomy has been studied as a contributing factor to intrapreneurship in various research. However, previous studies have not considered employees' personal needs for autonomy. Different forms of experienced misfits can have different effects on intrapreneurial behaviour. Additionally, a psychologically safe team can moderate the effect of misfit on intrapreneurial behaviour. This study examines these various perspectives to produce answers and new questions.

## 1.3 Academic & practical relevance

The extant academic literature scarcely addresses the relationship between and the effects of autonomy (mis)fit, psychological safety, and intrapreneurial behaviour. Although the elements on their own have been the subjects of many studies, the trilogy of these elements have not been examined together. This research therefore contributes in multiple ways.

### 1.3.1 Academic relevance

The contribution of this paper to the academia more specifically is twofold. First, a recurring object of study in the field of intrapreneurship is the influence of teams on intrapreneurial behaviour [@neessen2019; @deJong2015]. The present research contributes to the field by revealing whether and how teams affect the intrapreneurial behaviour of an individual. Specifically, this research examines whether a psychologically safe team environment acts as a catalyst or as a coping mechanism in the case of autonomy (mis)fit for the individual. Secondly, this research also answers a question raised by @vanVianen2018: "Which environmental and individual factors mitigate experienced misfits?". This research specifically answers whether psychological safety mitigates the experienced autonomy misfit.

Two types of misfit exist. By using polynomial regression analysis and an accompanying surface response analysis, the type of misfit was determined. Investigating both types of misfit is important. Misfit can be either an excess (having too much of it) or a deficiency (having too little of it). Prior research shows that an excess of misfit can have different outcomes relative to a deficient misfit [@stiglbauer2018, @vogel2016].

### 1.3.2 Practical relevance

Organisations has been shown to benefit from innovation and other means of gaining competitive advantage [@elert2020; @peters1982]. Ensuring sustained innovation is a pressing problem for managers [@tushman1986]. Attracting, retaining, and growing intrapreneurs in an organisation is a prescient problem for organisations. This research aims to show whether autonomy (mis)fit and/or psychological safety are beneficial for increasing the intrapreneurial behaviour of employees, especially for software development organisations, which represent the context of this research. These insights could lead to the adoption of recruitment strategies where managers select adaptable minds that can cope with misfit between levels of needs and supplies of autonomy [@yu2016; @vanVianen2018].

Beyond providing advice and insights regarding how to attract and select employees, this research contributes to the field of job design. @deJong2015 already showed that job autonomy influences entrepreneurial behaviour. However, their research took employees as a homogeneous group. This research attempts to complement that insight by acknowledging the personal needs of autonomy compared to the autonomy supplied by organisations. This additional knowledge can help organisations to develop strategies and mechanisms to design their positions in a way that promotes and enhances intrapreneurship among different individuals.

## 1.4 Method of research

The study uses a quantitative design to analyse correlating effects between the variables. A diary study was the primary method used to collect the data. Software development teams filled in a daily questionnaire for 10 consecutive working days. Prior to the daily surveys participants filled in a baseline (T0) survey. Following the daily surveys, a reflective survey (T1) was filled in by participants and their supervisors. The resulting data was analysed using polynomial regression analysis and visualised in the three-dimensional images using surface response modelling.
