# 5 Conclusion, discussion, and recommendations

## 5.1 Conclusion

As organisations are continuously striving for innovation, managers are searching for ways to boost their innovative capabilities throughout their organisation. Intrapreneurship, a bottom-up process of recognising and exploiting opportunities, is a way to promote innovative behaviour. Intrapreneurship is well-researched, but many questions about it remain unanswered. This research attempts to shed light on the relation between autonomy (mis)fit and intrapreneurial behaviour, which is a relationship that can potentially be influenced by levels of team-level psychological safety. The relationship between psychological safety and autonomy (mis)fit and intrapreneurial behaviour was therefore examined. Two dominant views are prevalent in the academic literature. The affective-consistency view argues that fit has to exist between autonomy needs and supply to foster intrapreneurial behaviour. The self-regulatory view presents an opposing view. This view argues that a misfit is required to foster intrapreneurial behaviour.

This research used polynomial regressions and the response surface methodology to examine the PE-fit of autonomy on intrapreneurial behaviour. It offers a thorough understanding of the effects between the two predictor variables and the outcome. Two models were created to test and understand these effects.

The main model tested the effect of autonomy need (person) and autonomy supply (environment) on intrapreneurial behaviour (outcome). The results of the polynomial regression analysis did not yielded any no significant results. Importantly, the interaction between needs and supply notably does not showed no a distinct relationship between with intrapreneurial behaviour. The lack of a distinct relationship does not speak in favour of the affective-consistency view, which argues that fit is required to obtain the desired outcome of intrapreneurial behaviour. The lack of mathematical proof along the line of perfect fit (a1 - slope, [@tbl:surface-response]) aids in questioning the validity for the affective-consistency view in the context of autonomy fit and intrapreneurial behaviour.

Characteristics of psychological safety are similar to antecedents of intrapreneurial behaviour at first glance. This research examined the potential existence of a direct relationship between psychological safety and intrapreneurial behaviour. This relationship was not found. Although a direct relationship does not exist, psychological safety could still have a moderating effect between autonomy (mis)fit and psychological safety. Conclusive statements could not be found. For environments with high psychological safety, no significant results were found.

For environments with low psychological safety, a large excess of autonomy was found to lead to low intrapreneurial behaviour (fig. 3). Especially when the individual need for autonomy is at its lowest, any excess of autonomy has negative consequences on intrapreneurial behaviour.

## 5.2 Discussion

### 5.2.1 The role of autonomy on intrapreneurial behaviour

Autonomy is a work characteristic that is increasingly being used to leverage digital technologies and innovation [@stiglbauer2018; @mueckeHowDoesJob2019]. Since autonomy is an influential factor on intrapreneurial behaviour [@deJong2015; @neessen2019] this research examined this relationship. The Person-Environment fit theory - and more specifically, the needs-supplies fit - has been used as a lens to investigate the relationships between the main variables of this study. The Person-Environment fit is generally defined as the compatibility between individuals and their environment [@vanVianen2018].

This study found no significant relation between autonomy (mis)fit and intrapreneurial behaviour. In other words, no significant relation was found between our two predictor variables and the outcome variable, intrapreneurial behaviour. This is, for example, shown by the lack of significance in the interaction between needs and supplies ([@tbl:model-poly]). Given the meta reviews of @neessen2019 and @blanka2019, one might find this result peculiar. Three elements can explain it.

First and foremost, the meta reviews describe autonomy from a supply perspective. For example, @neessen2019 states: “... giving employees autonomy in their work is one of the other dimensions that influence the intrapreneur. Giving the employee the freedom to design his/her work and to decentralise the decision-making process results in more intrapreneurial activities” (p. 15). In contrast, this research views the relationship between autonomy and intrapreneurial behaviour through a person-environment fit lens. The person-environment fit suggests that behaviours, and other outcomes, result from the relationship between person and environment. Therefore, a different lens was applied to the relationship between autonomy and intrapreneurial behaviour than previous research.

@edwards2006 state the importance of applying a different lens. Edwards et al. recognise three approaches to the person-environment fit: (a) the atomistic, which separates the person and the environment; (b) the molecular, which looks at the discrepancy between person and environment; and (c) the molar, which focuses on the perceived match or fit between the person and environment. Figure [-@fig:edwards-pe-fit] visualises these three approaches.

The meta reviews tested autonomy using a molar approach. For example, @deJong2011 sees job autonomy as a design variable and implicitly sees it as a (mis)fit between person and environment. Rigtering and Weitzel (2013) similarly examined individuals’ autonomy to make their own decisions and control their own job as factors for intrapreneurial behaviour.

![Phenomenology of Person-Environment fit [@edwards2006]](./thesis/figures/edwards-phenomonology-pe-fit.png){#fig:edwards-pe-fit}

This study followed an atomistic approach. It evaluated the needs and supply of autonomy as separate entities, which is similar to the approaches of Yu and Davis (2016) and @vogel2016. Given the atomistic approach of this study autonomy in its relation with intrapreneurial behaviour can be reviewed more thoroughly. The findings of this study suggest autonomy should not be viewed as a needs-supplies fit in relationship to intrapreneurial behaviour. Rather, both variables should be seen as distinct variables. A conclusion supported by an insignificant result on the interaction term of individual need and organisation supply (Table [-@tbl:model-poly]).

It raises the question whether the affective-consistency view and the self-regulatory view are in fact competing views. The affective-consistency view seems to be centred around the molar approach, whereas the self-regulatory view uses the atomistic approach. Rather than competing, the two views might be looking at the same relationship at different levels. With the risk of interpreting relationships, its origins, and consequences differently.

Finally, this study tested autonomy in a broad sense of the concept. The items of @spreitzer1995 test for job autonomy, decision making, and freedom. Autonomy, as combination of these three items, did not show a significant relation with intrapreneurial behaviour. Not in the case of individual autonomy need, as organisational autonomy supply.

### 5.2.2 Psychological safety as moderator

Today's work is accomplished in collaboration [@edmondsonLei2014; @frazier2017; @newman2017]. Psychological safety is an important factor affecting how people collaborate to achieve a shared outcome [@edmondsonLei2014]. Psychological safety makes members feel safe enough to engage in interpersonal risk-taking, a key characteristic of intrapreneurial behaviour [@neessen2019].

This study found no significant relationship between psychological safety and intrapreneurial behaviour. This finding was repeatedly found by comparing psychological safety with the daily measurements, the self-reported T1 measurements, and the supervisor reported T1 measurements. The lack of a significant relationship contradicts recently published research. @mahmoud2021 found a significant relationship between psychological safety and intrapreneurial behaviour. Their research investigated this relationship in Nigeria among middle-managers. Differences might be explained due to role or culture. For example, Edmondson and Lei (2014) note that: “employees in certain cultures may be particularly hesitant to ask questions, provide feedback, or openly disagree with their superiors” (p. 8). The low impact of psychological safety on outcomes is not uncommon. The review of Edmondson and Lei (2014) summarises that the impact of psychological safety was low when individuals had more confidence in the knowledge shared. When work was certain and less dependent on learning, the impact of psychological safety was lower. Boundary conditions potentially play a role in the impact that psychological safety can have.

Although no direct relation between psychological safety and intrapreneurial behaviour was found, there was a significant moderating effect. In an environments of low psychological safety, an individual supplied with high levels (excess) of autonomy, while not having a desire for autonomy, will show little intrapreneurial behaviour. This contradicts the dominant belief that an excess of misfit will do less harm than a deficient misfit [@vanVianen2018]. In environments with low psychological safety, an excess clearly leads to lower intrapreneurial behaviour. In fact, a slightly deficient misfit was found to lead to the highest level of intrapreneurial behaviour when experienced in an environment with low psychological safety. Thus, the effect of this deficient misfit supports the self-regulatory view.

Other research has also found that a slight misfit results in positive behaviour [@yu2016; @simmering2003]. A negative effect of excess was not found in these studies. This raises the question, is there a compounding effect of the two negative elements on intrapreneurial behaviour? A chicken or egg question might exist in this case. Does the lack of desire for autonomy originates due to the low psychological safety or does the lack of desire result in one perceiving the environment as psychologically unsafe. In any case, providing an excess of autonomy to an individual negatively affects their intrapreneurial behaviour when they are in an environment with low psychological safety.

### 5.2.3 Affective-consistent or self-regulation; who is the winner?

Two competing views were being tested in this research. The lack of support for hypothesis 1 goes against Negative findings for the affective-consistency view is the lack of support for hypothesis 1. If the view is correct, the analysis would have shown a significant a1 and a2 value and a linear surface along the line of perfect agreement. The absence of these findings do not speak in favour for go against the affective-consistency view but supports . Which also adds positively for the self-regulatory view. Although no significant findings have been were found in the main model, the low psychologically safe environment did yielded significant results. The positive effects of deficient misfit on intrapreneurial behaviour are positive signs for support the self-regulation view.

Considering all the found results –- and the limitations of this research –- no conclusive statement can be made regarding on which view is better explains how to foster for intrapreneurial behaviour. More research is therefore required for better insights and significant findings. The analysis and findings of this research can be used as a beacon for further directions and recommendations, both in practice and in research

## 5.3 Recommendations for practice

Organisations that are under constant pressure to innovate can benefit from intrapreneurship in their organisation. Intrapreneurship can influence an organisation’s ability to develop new products or services or to renew itself. This research has not revealed significant relationships between autonomy (mis)fit and intrapreneurial behaviour and psychological safety and intrapreneurial behaviour.

However, the study’s findings suggest that individual autonomy needs and the organisational supply of autonomy should be seen as individual components. Allowing organisations to change their hiring and selection strategy. Searching for candidates with close-to-perfect fit leads to a narrow group of possible candidates. This would suggest that most people are in a situation of misfit and a form of discomfort. The significant finding regarding environments with low psychological safety shows that a small deficient misfit leads to higher levels of intrapreneurial behaviour. Instead of striving for a needs-supplies fit during candidate selection, organisations should rather emphasise training and support systems to help employees handle misfit.

This study found that an excess of autonomy, when little is desired, in environments with low psychological safety leads to a lack of intrapreneurial behaviour. When an organisations experiences low levels of intrapreneurial behaviour, an analysis of psychological safety should be executed, for example, via anonymous surveys using the seven-items of @edmondson1999. If this yields low scores, the organisation should consider reducing autonomy. By expecting less of the team, a decline of safety could be halted. Organisations that regularly conduct employee satisfaction surveys (e.g., eNPS) could easily add this set of questions to their survey and take corresponding actions.

## 5.4 Recommendations for research

This research has contributed to the academic field but also has some limitations. This study found no supporting evidence for the proposed hypotheses. Consequently, this study primarily raises new questions and does not provide definitive answers.
Data for this study was collected using a diary study (12 points) and a single supervisor survey. Although this allowed for the triangulation of the data, the data was predominantly gathered using self-reports. Self-reports can lead to the common-method bias. Meaning, that answers are reported in a consistent manner [@podsakoff2003]. Teams that participated in the survey did not participate as a whole. Only a few individuals from each team filled in one or more surveys, which increases the risk of self-selection issues. Future research could avoid these limitations by reducing the number of timepoints, thereby reducing the effort for all team members to participate.

The relationship between autonomy and intrapreneurial behaviour withholds many related questions. Likewise, many questions for future research exist regarding the influence of psychological safety. Are the self-regulatory view and the affective-consistency view competing views, or are they concerned with different things? The three approaches regarding Person-Environment fit of @edwards2006 offer a wealth of opportunities to explore this question. Future research that combines the atomistic and molar approach could provide insight into what the effects of both approaches on intrapreneurial behaviour are. The atomistic approach may tend to measure different aspects compared to the molar approach. This might provide answers with regards to the views of self-regulation and affective-consistency.

This study found no direct relationship between psychological safety and intrapreneurial behaviour. Additional research should further investigate the possible existence of this relationship. There might be potential influencing factors, such as culture or organisational role. Contextual elements such as certainty of work or learning behaviour could influence the relation between the two constructs as well. A large set of questions and possibilities must still be researched and analysed in future research.

A high supply of autonomy, when none is desired, leads to low intrapreneurial behaviour in environments with low psychological safety. Further research could determine the directionality. Does the low level of desired autonomy originate from low levels of psychological safety or do other factors play a role here? There might be a circular relationship. Too much autonomy leads to higher levels of feeling unsafe, where the excess is high and intrapreneurial behaviour declines. A better understanding of this directionality is also useful for organisations. If it origins from low psychological safety, organisations have ample opportunities to better the situation. For example, they may use trainings and support systems. If other factors are at play, it might affect hiring and selection strategies and consequently reduce the potential pool of candidates.
