# Summary

Organisations need to gain and maintain a competitive advantage over their competition. Innovation is key for organisations to thrive in this world. Managers must ensure sustained innovation [@tushman1986]. A way to achieve sustained innovation is through intrapreneurship. Intrapreneurship is a bottom-up process of recognising and exploiting opportunities by being innovative, proactive, and taking risks [@neessen2019].

Not all employees in an organisation will behave as intrapreneurs. Intrapreneurial behaviour is influenced by many factors, including autonomy [@deJong2015]. Prior research has investigated the relationship between intrapreneurial behaviour with autonomy being a design variable. The level of autonomy given by the organisation being the variable under study. However, that is only part of the story. Some people will thrive in an environment of autonomy, whereas others will experience it as demanding. The relationship between individual autonomy need, organisational autonomy supply, and intrapreneurial behaviour is viewed through the perspective of Person-Environment fit in this study.

Two prominent views exists in the academic literature. The affective-consistency view argues that a fit should exists between individual needs and organisational supply. Only when both variables are congruent will the individual be motivated. Contradicting this view is the self-regulatory view. The self-regulatory view states that a misfit is required between individual needs and organisational supply if individuals are to be motivated. Given these two contradicting views, this research aims to provide insight into whether fit or misfit is required to promote intrapreneurship by influencing autonomy. Leading to the hypotheses:

- Hypothesis 1: (a) Intrapreneurial behaviour will be lower when individual autonomy need and organisational autonomy supply are both low and will be higher when both are high; (b) intrapreneurial behaviour will increase as organisational supply of autonomy increases towards individual autonomy need (fit), and will decrease as organisational supply exceeds individual need.
- Hypothesis 2: (a) Intrapreneurial behaviour will be lower when individual autonomy need and organisational autonomy supply are both low or both high; (b) Intrapreneurial behaviour will increase when the difference between individual needs and organisational supply (misfit) increases.

Most of today's work is accomplished by teams [@edmondsonLei2014]. The way teams communicate, give feedback, and learn together have all been found to influence their performance. A prominent influence is psychological safety. Psychological safety is the shared belief by team members that one can engage in interpersonal risk-taking within the team [@edmondson1999]. Teams with high levels of psychological safety do better on feedback seeking, sharing concerns, and learning in general, all of which positively influence intrapreneurial behaviour. Teams with high levels of psychological safety may perform better than teams with low safety, which leads to the following hypotheses:

- Hypothesis 3: Psychological safety is positively related to intrapreneurial behaviour
- Hypothesis 4a: The positive relation of needs-supplies fit on autonomy will be stronger when psychological safety is high compared to when it is low
- Hypothesis 4b: The positive relation of needs-supplies misfit on autonomy will be stronger when psychological safety is high compared to when it is low

A diary study was performed to collect data from software development teams. Using validated constructs, participants entered a baseline survey, 10 daily surveys, and a closing survey. The last survey was also done by the team supervisor. Polynomial regression analysis and surface response modelling were used to test the above hypotheses. No evidence was found to support or reject any of the hypotheses.

Which view has the right perspective on promoting intrapreneurial behaviour via autonomy is still unclear. The analysis of the collected data showed a peculiar relation between the individual need for autonomy and organisational supply. An explanation of this relation can be found by measuring Person-Environment fit. Each approach may measure different concepts. The two views might not therefore be contradicting but may actually be complementing. Further research should combine these approaches in a single study to shed a light on this peculiarity.

No direct relationship between psychological safety and intrapreneurial behaviour was found. However, in environments with low psychological safety, an excess of autonomy leads to lower levels of intrapreneurial behaviour. In other words, an individual that feels unsafe and has a lot of autonomy, will not take risks, be proactive, or innovate. Organisations should be aware of psychological safety in their teams and take appropriate actions, for example, by reducing autonomy or provide training to improve psychological safety.
